When looking at the read me, you're
gonna wanna make sure that you follow
the instructions to install volta,
which helps manage your node and
your yarn versions, so you get
the correct version for this project.
Make sure you're using
Visual Studio code as well if you
wanna see what I see on the screen, a
little bit less important to use VS.code.
For this course, compared to say,
a TypeScript course, but
it does offer some benefits in this case.
So, if you check out your project,
you should see something similar
to what I'm seeing on the screen.
There's not much here,
There's a notes folder.
So this contains a markdown files
that represent each step of
the project that we're
going to take today.
And then there's this
folder called course files.
And that includes some
of the source code for
example that you're going
to be working with today.
Because I don't want you to be
spending time writing code.
A lot of the work that we're going to be
doing today, has to do with configuring
our project and setting up some
build scripts and things like that.
So I want your time, focused as
much as possible on the meaningful
stuff that has to do with
working with a mono repo.
The first thing we're gonna
have to do today is take
our package json at
the root of our project.
And this is basically what you get out
of the box if you just run yarn in net.
In fact, if you follow the instructions
in step one The workshop project.
I start even earlier
than what you see here.
I will start with it,
basically an empty project and
go through the process of creating
this file, but it's kind of boring.
So I decided to give
you the starting point.
The first thing we're going to
do is add a new property here.
And let's call it workspaces, actually,
I'm not gonna say let's call it
workspaces, because that implies that
other things would be appropriate here,
it must be workspaces.
And we're gonna say packages star, right?
So it's an array and We can put one or
more values in this array.
Now what we're telling yarn
here is that number one,
we want to use this feature
called the yarn workspaces.
And number two, any subfolders
found within the packages folder,
which I can create now.
Any sub folders within packages
should be regarded as packages
that are part of this workspace.
That's where yarn can look to find them.
Now you could, if you want to have a bunch
of things in the root of your project,
you could say Library a,
Something like this,
or you could just press a bunch of things.
I kind of like this wild card approach
because that's what's gonna let us
add additional packages here without
having to touch this file, right?
As long as we establish the convention
Darren's just going to find things as we
drop new folders into this,
this packages folder.
So we save this just to save ourselves a
little bit of work.Now if you go into this
course Files folder, which is where we're
going to get a lot of the things that will
become part of our project.
Look in a folder number one.
And you'll see that within
this yarn workspaces folder,
we have something called types.
And that has a source and a test folder.
It's got its own package JSON and
a Ts config,
which is our Type Script configuration.
So I want you to grab types.
Or if you could do the command
line version of this, but
we effectively just wanna move it into
this packages folder, just like this.
So you get packages types, and
then the rest of this code here.
Now I want us to look at
what's going on here.
So we have a pretty small and
thin package JSON.
We have a Ts config, If you've seen these
before, this kind of looks like a very
typical one with sort of the strictness
you know, cranked up to 11.
And then we've got some source code and
some tests.
Nothing too fancy here.
Now I do want to talk a little bit
about this, naming convention.
So if I call my, if I call this package,
at flack slash types,
I'm using what is called a scope for
my package,
meaning when I publish these to NPM,
they're all going to be sort
of owned by a single org.
And this is a common convention that's
used for library style mana repos.
Because it allows you to sort of have
a group of published artifacts that
are associated with the single repository.
So the naming convention makes it easy for
users of this library to understand
that these are all parts of a whole.
Let's just make sure
that things work here.
And we're gonna remember
all we have here is yarn,
we haven't really
installed any dependencies.
We can run yarn, just to make sure that
everything's wired up the way it should.
Should be.
So we've saved our lock file.
I wonder what happened to the lock file.
We brought in TypeScript, but
this is like, that's the whole lock file.
Just have this one, one dependency.
What this does prove though,
is that this TypeScript dependency, which
is not present In our root level package
JSON, it's not here, right version 403,
which resolved to exactly 403 because
that's the latest release as of today.
So this inner package JSON.
It is found by yarn and
when you run yarn install You get it
just like you would get anything else.
So let's go into that package and
try to build it.
So I see a dist folder here and
I see some JavaScript that got spit
out as part of the build process.
So we have in fact finished
our first step here.
And what we can see already is
that yarn workspaces allows
multiple little sub
projects to work like when
you're executing code when
you're saying yarn build.
From within the right sub folder,
things work exactly as you would expect.
This already has a lot of value, right?
And because of how nodes
require resolve method works,
which by the way if you're interested,
there's a great
There's a great page that like
in the anode documentation,
it's called all together now I think,
Yeah, all together.
So this is worth a read if you don't
understand how like importing modules
works.
It's worth a read there's a great
Great page here in the Node JS
official docs that helps you
understand exactly how this works.
And it will help you make
sense of why this works and
why having a node modules folder
at the root of your project
is sufficient in order to
help you understand why this,
The sub project concept it works and
it would work even before
yarn spaces was loud